[Whimsical]

[01:43:07]

[rough machine transcription, expect errors]

Okay, last stop on our diagramming tour.

Let's try Whimsical.

Haven't worked too much with Whimsical, so I'll kind of fumble around probably.

But let's check it out.

It looks good and it's taken me a little while to know that I think I want a flow chart more than I want to mind map, But I'm not 100% sure.

Let's try a flow chart.

Okay, so boxes and lines and text.

Let's try text and double click.

Doesn't do anything.

The various shift command, uh different return keys.

Didn't do anything.

That one makes a new line in the box.

Okay, So right click doesn't do anything interesting.

So I guess it's this This one is a little bit slow too.

Not as bad as scaffold, but not great.

So let's see how we connect these things.

Okay, so the good news is I've got a line it's easy to label and I guess it's kind of easy to connect.

So that's pretty good news.

I also know that you can move these to any part of, maybe not any part, but you can move it to different sides, the sides of the the box, and that's not a good parts to put it.

But if I wanted to, I could move it to the center.

Think everything will be hunky dorry.

Yeah.

So, unlike Mirror, I think I'll be able to use uh lions and have them look decent.

That label is pretty interesting.

There's a really bad spot for when you move it like that.

Uh Maybe that's a little bit of a bug.

It usually looks pretty good.

Okay, so let's try some napping.

Um cars.

Mhm.

Whenever I can duplicate this course, I just type it doesn't do anything.

I've kind of got to put it down someplace.

Can't but then I don't have to select it to start typing, which is kind of nice city.

Um And house.

Well, it looks like they're okay.

They're somehow okay, so from previous work, we know that cats live in a house.

Mhm.

Okay.

I'm gonna try that again.

Uh Cat and let's try something else.

Cars have wheels, gonna drive this copy and paste again, engines and motors.

I'm unhappy with that icon by the way for a duplicate, that's the copy icon to me.

And so over using it for a duplicate.

It doesn't make me happy, makes me a little bit confused and a little bit upset.

So let's try connecting car and huh? I wasn't dragging it to the next one previously, so I don't want to add text, but now I've calmed down enough so that I can add a connector between house cats except that they're backwards.

So I guess want to talk of the importance.

Um That label is too much the font sizes too, and the color is too similar to the the nodes, I guess I can fix that, but it's still clunky, so the piece parts are here.

It's a little bit clunky too to accomplish things.

The good thing is it feels pretty easy and I think I can explain to somebody on the phone um Alright soon how to do this and they could pick it up pretty quickly.

Mhm.

Things like that spacing guide their kind of gets in the way more than it helps in a lot of ways.

Um I if I were I think I've seen enough um I could use this um and uh it's a little bit simpler than draw, I owe to explain to somebody else and get them started so I can kind of imagine using this tool.

Um The speed that I can do stuff is a little slow, more slow than I'd like.

It makes it hard for me to concentrate on what I'm doing rather than just fiddling around with it and I don't feel like that's going to get a lot faster.

Um it just it's a little slow and clunky to get stuff done, uh drags are slow, I'm sure there's a lot going on here, but you know, to get this to work, but it ends up making it kind of a slow slog and tough to brainstorm with um both Diagrams.net and Whimsical are multiplayer, so that would be really cool.

It would be cool to do this multiplayer with with people, I'm not convinced that it would be faster or better than having one person drive Scapple.

I think one person can drive Scapple pretty quickly and other people could be watching and give it, saying, and then once you have a map, you can take that map and re implement, it may be in Whimsical.

I don't know, I don't I don't relish the idea of trying to get all this work done in Whimsical.

It would take, I feel like it would take a lot longer.

Um The diagrams are pretty, the font is pretty, the lines are pretty um the labels are kinda clunky.

Um So I don't know for a multi player solution, I'm kind of torn between dry oh and diagrams with that and what is the call Euro with the uh the line placement just totally turned me off that and being so like Whimsical.

Um not it's not something I look forward to using, so I guess Scapple is kind of a winner um but it's only single player and uh it would take a little bit of work to get this map out into anything else.

I'm not sure how I feel about that.

Not happy.

I guess.

There you go.

There's the tour.
