[Miro]

[01:28:26]

[rough machine transcription, expect errors]

Okay.

Next up on the diagramming pub crawl is Miro with narrow and maybe the next app wins a call.

I'm not sure that I'll do the whole diagram.

Um, just enough to kind of get a flavor of it.

So let's try a new board in mirror.

Making a diagram like this.

In Miro is a little bit of a misuse of the tool.

I think it's got a lot of capabilities other than just boxing line diagrams.

So I don't know if this is exactly fair, but it's worth a shot.

Okay.

I don't really want template.

So maybe I, we'll just close this and let's make sure that I can make text.

I'm not sure that I can.

Uh, it's just tough.

Okay.

Maybe my computer is crowded.

Maybe my browser's running too slow.

I don't have a lot running on my computer.

Um, The CPU is kind of pig though, so for whatever reason Miro is running slow for me too slow to be useful I think.

But let's try this a little bit more.

Okay, I think I've got a line there each other again.

I don't know if I want a straight line or the arrow gets an arrow.

It's fine, distracted connection line.

That's cool.

So you're telling me if I make a new text box here, I didn't really mean to make a line here.

Actually let me I'll hit escape in the line of go away.

Let me do this from here, drag from here to there.

Pretty sweet.

Okay, try a straight line for the heck of it, dragged it off the text box.

One of the problems I have with marrow is it's connection algorithm for straight lines.

It's it's doing something that's kind of reasonable for text.

It's choosing the nearest connection point on the outside of the text box.

But in my experience, what happens then is that when you have a constellation of nodes around? Another note, that was option B, which was nice.

Let me let me start the real test here how to delete these and start with car trying different uh command keys with enter to see if I can make a new one.

Um I'm going to use option D to make new ones, so cars have wheels.

Okay, that's cool.

Not what I wanted, I wanted to make it the box bigger, but not the Oh, actually that's that's another mirror feature.

Text fills the box.

Yeah.

So theoretically if I want to make this bigger, I would just make it the box bigger.

That is a weird interaction with the length of the text, but I'm not going to think about that too much yet.

So duplicate this.

I've actually got to type in their or select in there to start typing, which it's a little clunky, but not horrible.

Cars have wheels and engines or instead of an engine, they might have a motor that was option dear without the right thing selected.

So I got a bookmark instead of the command to Miro.

Same thing.

Have to select out of this, selected again.

Then community.

So this is just slow enough for me to be frustrated doing this.

It takes a long time to move things.

It takes a little bit of extra time to make new things.

Everything is a little bit slow and it gets me pretty frustrated.

So let's connect these, the Miro.

You can do it.

I wonder if I'm doing something wrong, you know, trace connecting these to the center here.

I guess that's connected to the center.

So, um, this line here is connected to the center is what the interface seems to be telling me.

So that's great and all except that it's not really connected to the center.

So let me try to connect it to the center again.

So I think it is.

Um, and we keep connecting these.

Okay, so the good news here with this connection stuff is that I guess I can read the text, don't know how this one ended up.

Try to resize this and then the front size changes so I don't want that.

I guess it's the same box size as transmission or something like that sell me undo.

You did.

It looks like I got a weird crash or maybe it's just introduction with my, my plug in on command shift.

The Okay, so I'm trying to select car again.

Here we go so that I can connect it to driver.

I'm just waiting.

Okay.

Maybe I'll give up waiting and try that again.

Truck car.

So I'm connecting it to the center, Not to that one.

So centre.

So a couple of problems here is somehow this box is too big and I don't know how to fix it.

So that line connects to the center of the box, but not the center of the word.

Um, this these, this doesn't radiate from the center even though it's connected to the center.

So these arrows are starting to look weird.

You see what happens when I move them around.

So this, this line doesn't connect to the center.

So even though these are on opposite sides of car, they're not connected in the same place.

The whole thing looks dumb.

It's weird that this line jumps from there to there, so I guess this is particularly awkward here.

Um, I guess maybe I'm doing something wrong.

Maybe if I connected these boxes or maybe if I size these boxes better, but I don't know how to size it without changing the font size.

Um, so this this connection, all of this stuff just looks super stupid and I'm going to quit because I don't see this going anyplace good, um Done with marrow for this experiment.

Thanks.

