[Scapple]

[00:00:00]

[rough machine transcription, expect errors]

Hello, this is Peter Kaminski working on visual mapping via tools that let me do nodes and lines, connections and elements.

Something like that.

I wanted to try a couple different tools and see which ones I like, which ones I don't like why I like them.

What features and capabilities I'm looking for in a tool.

The kind of uh mapping I want to do right now is quick brainstorming and mapping of knowledge space without too much thinking beforehand.

So this is extemporaneous mapping.

Ah not unlike um taking notes in a meeting or just thinking through a topic and starting a report or um some commentary or something like that.

So first up, let's try Scapple, pick a new document and I'll give it a name, naming things right away.

It's important.

Okay.

One of the things I like already is it's got quick instructions here, double click anywhere to create a note and drag notes onto one another to make connections.

So that's kind of good enough to get started.

It's a good reminder as I'm switching tools, uh, what to do.

Uh I've got a preset list of kind of brainstorming list, um about cars, automobiles.

I came up with this list kind of quickly and I tried to do different kinds of things with it to simulate maybe um kind of arbitrary exploration through a space without thinking of all the same kinds of things.

And I hope, I hope this makes a good map and the idea I've got is to continue using this map for each tool.

So let me get started.

Um, um, I realized right away something that I want is a couple different kinds of start points.

So let me add some notes here because I want to, one of the things that I want to make sure that as I'm doing maps, I can have not just one my mind map, that's hierarchical with a center point, but I want a center point that can be multiple center points.

So let me take some quick notes so I can see that.

I got more.

I'll just add some nodes.

I know that I'm not great with Scapple but it's it's my main note taking tool for a number of years and so I'm okay with it.

Um I don't have a lot of patience to learn every fiddly thing of most tools.

So there's a lot of uh interesting capabilities, decent capabilities that Scapple has for taking notes and making a map prettier right now.

I'm not really interested in a pretty map.

What I'm really interested in is capturing concepts quickly and easily.

So one of the things I know that Scapple does well is that lets me uh hit command return and that gives me a set of notes all all at once.

So horse, cat, house, city car, you'll notice that that on city there I hit return instead of option return, command returns.

So you know I've got a little, it's a little clunky having to hit command return and then wondering if it is an option, command and control whatever.

But once you get into it it's it's pretty good.

So these are great items.

Uh One of the things, another thing you'll note when I try to drag, I know sometimes it makes the note bigger instead of moving the notes so this will screw up my alignment later on.

So I'm going to hit undo command C to get rid of that.

Um I think this happens mostly with small notes.

So it's not a big problem.

Anyway, as I move these, you'll notice that this is arranged in a stack.

Um It's called in Scapple.

Um, Scapple has the idea of a couple notes altogether.

Being a group of things, like a bullet list or something like that.

And that's called the stack.

Because I was using option return.

Um, it automatically made a stack, but I can also take a selection of notes.

And do you stack your um, Okay, let me scatter these around horse and house look similar.

So I'm going to put those together.

Cat's going houses, I guess guess.

So.

I'll leave that over there.

Houses go in cities.

That sounds good.

But really, I wanted to start with car.

So let me start with car.

Cars have wheels, um, they have engines or motors, um, wheels, wheels are combined of the actual wheel part and then maybe tires.

So the gesture for connecting things in Scapple is just to drag one on top of the other.

Uh, Scapple keeps track of the direction that you connect something.

So one is primary or secondary.

So, um let me look up how to change this connection type to an arrow.

So it looks like the I think I selected wheel and then wheels.

And so um the first one you select is maybe the child.

Let me try that real quick.

If I make a parent in a child.

Another thing that is really important to be able to do on these is to duplicate them.

Um and offhand, I don't know if you can do that looks, I don't see a way to do a good duplicate, but I can do a copy and paste.

So let me do that and I could paste a couple times if I need to copy paste paste.

Okay.

Another thing I really like and Scapple is the way that it can do alignments.

So I can align vertically and horizontally and I can align edges.

Um for centers.

So in this case I want to maybe align vertical centers, horizontal centers.

Sorry And then I moving moving one of those means I moved both of them.

These are reasonably well aligned.

These are not so aligned centers for those two.

And then I'm gonna line vertical centers on these.

Another thing that Scapple is really good at is distribute horizontally.

So now there's an even number of space or even space between those.

Anyway um Let's try an experiment here, connect parent or child to parent and parent to child.

Um And then do that thing where I did connect with arrow and connect with their uh so the dash line connection didn't matter.

I think what the the arrow is probably going to go in the in the direction of selection.

So 1st selected.

2nd selected.

There you go.

Um, I'm going to disconnect this and reconnect it with just our standard dashed line, which is super fast.

Okay, wheels have wheels and tires.

These things are getting a little bit close to for me, You know, this, that stack moved altogether, which is fine.

But let me try to move a little bit separately.

So engines have engine blocks and cylinders and spark plugs.

I'm reading this off, but that's about the same as thinking, just thinking, I made a mistake there.

The cylinders didn't hit the target quite so I'm going to do community and then we do that in that time.

It connected just fine.

Okay, so spark plugs, Let's think about spark plugs for a little bit, spark plugs are a thing that use electricity to ignite vapor.

Um, paper is a state of manner.

So let me write down states of matter.

So if I, if I end up labeling this connection would be something like, remind me of or have a relationship.

Um, so vapor is, well, let's look up vapor.

I cheated and looked this up before.

So let's copy a long note in.

We need to make some more space.

I don't want that bullet states of matter, paperwork prefers to have gas phase liquid solid.

So states of matter include solid square gas.

And then I can say vapor is a gas phase.

So this isn't the connection I want.

This is a connection I want except maybe I really want to say there's vapor, which is a phase of gas.

And then really I want to connect this.

Let's see if we connect it here and then disconnected here.

That's great.

Okay, so now this is making a mess of my space here.

Maybe I'll just tolerate that for a while.

Uh, so use electricity to ignite vapor.

I kind of forgot where that goes, but it's pretty easy for me to find.

Oh yeah, it goes to spark plugs.

Mm Now I can see that maybe I would decompose this statement a little bit like a concept map.

So let me try that real quick.

Um, so the components, the now ones in here are electricity and vapor.

Uh, so let me cut this, paste it here, cut this.

Um, and we're going to try a new thing.

We're going to label this connection here.

Yeah.

Connection labeling and Scapple means it works by selecting two notes and then editing the connection label and I can just paste used in there from my previous previous wording here.

And vapor is now redundant because I have that already.

Uh let me change this into a nice verb and then delete this.

Hopefully that note isn't sticking around.

That's good.

So let me connect these and label these two lovely.

Um, okay, so back up the chain.

Two engines.

Anything else about engines? No, How about motors? Motors have batteries or motors are connected to batteries, batteries.

Supply energy to motors.

Let's say that.

I don't want to say supplies energy to because that's kind of too long.

So, I'm just going to say energizes, which hopefully is good enough.

Cars have, let me start connecting.

These cars have wheels.

An engine or motor.

Um, I wish I could say we're one or the other here.

That's not gonna be super easy.

Mm in my map.

So, I guess I'll just leave it for now.

Cars have transmissions.

Let's do something a little bit differently.

Um, I can say from car, I can say new connected note transmission and let's see how that that worked worked okay.

Um just it's easy to do this, I think double click and create anyone.

Cars and drivers drivers use steering wheels.

Um I want to make sure I remember that drivers use steering wheels, so let's do this real.

Maybe it should be singular.

Okay.

Along with the driver, there's passengers.

Car is a kind of a vehicle.

Mhm.

So this is a superset to car.

Um None of these are vehicles, but another kind of vehicle could be a truck or a boat for ship or a bicycle.

Ships and boats have a relationship.

Mhm.

I'm going to call this.

Maybe float on water, truck and boat and ship and bicycle on all vehicles along with car.

one thing to note here is this, this only moves that node, which is fine.

The lions all radiate towards the center, which is fine for my purposes here.

Um I know that I can multi select these and move them all together.

That doesn't move children which is fine.

I don't know.

I wonder if I can select children.

I don't think I can but Uh huh.

There you go.

Select connected.

No, it's awesome.

I can do command click to de select that one.

Uh And then I wonder if I can do that double down on that.

Select connected notes.

Yeah, let's try that again.

It's a car.

This connected clusters do uh changed chases them all out, but it didn't select these.

So that's a fair thing.

Now I can move all those together.

That was pretty handy.

It's pretty easy to let's try to go select connected clusters.

So everything connected to car or connected to something that's connected.

Um If I hold last time I what I did is I clicked and right away everything D.

Selected.

But if I hold command, yep didn't work, wow okay, you can also select these by space.

I guess I can't de select that way.

Um let's go back to my cars.

Also have body and headlights and tail lights.

Keep track of the connection between these.

Even the type of light and foot on water is a different kind of connection.

Cars have paint, cars have painter, does the body out paint? Uh huh.

Let's say that the body has paid cars are also known as automobile and I'm gonna connect that and label this connection aka Automobile is okay, you know I kind of looked these up before so I'm going to copy and paste those.

I'm copying a little bit more than I want here I guess.

That's okay.

It's the most horrible thing you try to be a little bit more parsimonious with my selection I think it's not gonna work and it didn't, which is still more or less.

Okay.

Um right away I'm kind of drawn.

I could decompose each of these a little bit.

Uh This is obviously greek and this is obviously french and latin.

So those would be good things to break out.

Um These are words or parts of words so I might I might note that too, but so far I'm good enough there care.

Um I really don't like that.

These are not connected to anything.

Um I do however like that they are separate mind maps.

They're not a mind map with a center.

So Uh huh let's do some connecting of these.

Um and they'll say cat is and horses, the kind of animal and houses are in cities connection level in.

Okay so this is a fairly decent map.

I'm pretty happy with it.

Um I like that.

I can distribute these around make this make these look pretty the way I want to.

This is.

Uh huh.

So I've got good control over um distribution things like that we saw before that if I wanted to I could these are already aligned but I could align them differently if I want to and I can distribute them if I wanted.

Mhm.

Horizontal wasn't what I was looking for there.

You should be distributed vertically.

Very nice maybe aligned on centers.

Um Let me make some let's make some boxes maybe.

So I know that's a shape, two background shape.

Nice box.

That's great.

Move this here, make it smaller so I can drag things inside.

That's cool.

And then they're not a ship.

Mhm.

Although it said something the shape said make a new shape.

That's my my tip dragnets inside.

And then it was something about option click together.

It's true, yep, that worked.

Um So this is a good way to make a call out.

I wonder if this, if I can make a new shape around those, but it's easy enough to make a shape and then select these.

Mhm.

Can't quite do the option click thing, but that's okay.

I also use these background shapes to make little notes or legends.

Uh So what I'm trying to do is just type I guess.

Mm hmm.

I thought these were text boxes, but I guess they're just shapes, which is fine.

Cars diagramming, option return again by Peter Kaminski Version 2021 7.

You can use alignment to make these better, although I guess maybe you have to do this too.

Makes it a little bit.

So maybe alignments distribute vertically alliance left edges.

Looks pretty good groups.

Yeah.

Uh, we haven't looked at it too much yet, but there's a whole whole thing about styling notes that we could do.

Let's play with styling a little bit.

Option click.

Just sucked all of those put down here.

Mm hmm.

So I think that's really cool is I can choose different, different types of notes from a palette.

Kind of I could also change the border and the border shape.

Make this a lot a lot different.

And I can easily get back to just make it look normal for me.

Um, I can do that for a number of um, notes at once to so perhaps I would want to do something like select connected.

Uh, and then apply border change to each of these and maybe make the bigger font looks like it's not in here.

So I also know that I can do inspector with option command.

I so let me make the fun bigger on all of these and then it's that car and make the font even bigger on that.

I can also do things command minus and command plus works too.

I don't like that.

The border is the same on all of these.

So let me do that connected trick again real quick.

It's lacked connected.

We're thin and border big.

The note that I can do this either in the inspector or with the menu.

I can do things like I can save these note styles.

Also let me pick a change this around something maybe kind of ugly but different.

Okay mm Yeah.

Cloud shape here is pretty ugly but I guess it's different at least another thing is I can't change the size of the note.

I can't make it bigger vertically.

I can make it bigger horizontally.

Or I can put more text in here which is okay and change the alignment but only the horizontal alignment, not the vertical alignment.

So the way I've got it vertically aligned right now it's just with blank lines.

Uh So now I can save this as a note style.

Not quite in here.

Try it up here.

New note style from selection.

That's what I want.

Uh ugly style.

You have a full set of what you want to include as the template style there.

So now I've got a new style called ugly.

Let me pick some poor note and make it this ugly style, apply a note style, ugly stuff, lovely.

I will undo that.

Get it back.

Okay that's pretty good.

Tour of Scapple's features and creating a couple different diagrams and some ways that I can add some structure and maybe not flair.

It's not super attractive but differences at least in the way that this works.

And I felt like that was fast and determine the determinative.

I was able to do the things that I wanted to do and it was deterministic.

Easy to undo.

I don't have multiple undo steps, but um, I didn't get too far deep into problems.

So okay, without I know that I can export this as a PNG or Pdf, I can also export it as a text or RTF, OPML, I don't think that it preserves the structure in those formats.

Um, so not great export exporting the data as data, but at least I could export nodes and text or OPML and then suck that into something else and structure it there.

So there you go.

That's Scapple.
